plans/software/employment_data.markdown, before:

# Critical Challenges Planning

## The Challenge

* What Critical Challenge are you going to work on?

We need to effectively collect and report on employment data from recent grads and alumni.

* Why is this a “challenge”?

Job-hunting process is complicated involving lots of people and numerous
steps. We don't currently have great insight into this process beyond
word-of-mouth, individualized conversations.

* Can it be solved? What would be value to the organization/team in solving it or working towards a solution?

With proper tooling and great discipline around processes,
it can probably be solved. Benefit would be having central repository of
more objective data around job hunting. This allows us to monitor trends
over time and is pretty important to any other challenges around job
hunting.

* What happens if we fail to solve it / improve it?

We just don't know where we stand. It's impossible to accurately
troubleshoot issues if we don't have the ability to see if our changes
are having any impact.

* What skills do you have that make you the right person to work on this challenge?

Q: Good question.

## The Past

* What’s been done so far?

- Job hunt repo
- Word-of-mouth reports
- Transient collection of data (slack, hand-written notes, email)

* Was it effective? How do you know?

Somewhat effective in the moment (for helping a single student over the
course of a few weeks). But not very effective in aggregate or over the
long term.

* Was this someone’s challenge before you? Why did they stop doing it or how did we make progress without addressing it?

- Mostly Jeff and Daisha based on tracking feedback through in-person
  interactions.

## The Present

* What are the first steps that you’re ready to execute now?

- Talk more to marissa, daisha, and jeff about current state of data
  recording on job hunt -- figure out what we need and how we could most
  easily do it
- Research lo-fi solutions (google form, google doc, github repo) for
  recording info

* What will be the next three things you do?

1. Institute a post-job-contact survey to ask students to fill out
   whenever they interact with an employer or an interview
   - Q: Does this have to be automated with some central tracking software? Is there some way around this?
2. Investigate basic stats reporting on student job tracking data (avg #
   of job apps, avg number of meetings/interviews, avg "dropoff" rates
   at different stages)
3. TBD

* How will you keep track of progress and results?

- Check in regularly with marissa about how our insight into job process
  is looking
- Try to continue tracking with students to see how many things are
  still "falling through the cracks"

* Are you empowered to take the actions you think necessary?

## The Future

* What would total success look like?

- Some sort of integrated dashboard/stats repository listing job
  contacts for every graduating/job-hunting student
- Ability to identify funnel-style pain points -- dropoffs at tech
  intervies? dropoffs at cultural screenings?

* What metrics can be used to evaluate results?

- Avg # of records reported per student?

* What would meaningful progress look like in 3 months? 6 months? 12 months?

- Short Term: We have students submitting some kind of reports after
  job/employer contact
- Mid/Long Term: Students can submit this feedback through an organized
  tool that is aware of what the overall job process looks like and can
  report the data in a "funnel"-like format

* How feasible are each of those goals?

Definitely feasible to put some tools in place. I think the hardest part
of this is figuring how to get the necessary processes and discipline in
place to get accurate and consistent reporting from students.

## The Periphery

* What challenges are you going to stop working on to put time into this?

Q: Not sure. Large questions around amount of time/effort required to
make this work.

* What research/learning do you need to do to be effective at solving it?

- Discussion needed with other Turing staff and maybe students as well
  to identify what we actually need

* What supports do you need to make meaningful progress?

- Probably need ongoing checkins with Marissa especially to talk about
  next steps and what we need

* Which other challenges does this align with?

- Academic: Interview preparedness
- Software: augment job hunting process with new tools
- Lifecycle:  prepare students for the job hunt with effective strategies, clear and realistic expectations, and an ability to represent the skills they’ve developed.

* Who, inside and outside our community, can help you?

- Marissa, Daisha, Jeff. Probably lots of feedback from students along
  the way

* When you're unavailable (sick, leave, etc), who does this challenge belong to?

- Q: Probably marissa ends up managing lots of this tooling day to day

Commit message:

add note about marissa's CRM search so far

plans/software/employment_data.markdown, after:

# Critical Challenges Planning

## The Challenge

* What Critical Challenge are you going to work on?

We need to effectively collect and report on employment data from recent grads and alumni.

* Why is this a “challenge”?

Job-hunting process is complicated involving lots of people and numerous
steps. We don't currently have great insight into this process beyond
word-of-mouth, individualized conversations.

* Can it be solved? What would be value to the organization/team in solving it or working towards a solution?

With proper tooling and great discipline around processes,
it can probably be solved. Benefit would be having central repository of
more objective data around job hunting. This allows us to monitor trends
over time and is pretty important to any other challenges around job
hunting.

* What happens if we fail to solve it / improve it?

We just don't know where we stand. It's impossible to accurately
troubleshoot issues if we don't have the ability to see if our changes
are having any impact.

* What skills do you have that make you the right person to work on this challenge?

Q: Good question.

## The Past

* What’s been done so far?

- Job hunt repo
- Word-of-mouth reports
- Transient collection of data (slack, hand-written notes, email)

* Was it effective? How do you know?

Somewhat effective in the moment (for helping a single student over the
course of a few weeks). But not very effective in aggregate or over the
long term.

* Was this someone’s challenge before you? Why did they stop doing it or how did we make progress without addressing it?

- Mostly Jeff and Daisha based on tracking feedback through in-person
  interactions.

## The Present

* What are the first steps that you’re ready to execute now?

- Talk more to marissa, daisha, and jeff about current state of data
  recording on job hunt -- figure out what we need and how we could most
  easily do it
- Research lo-fi solutions (google form, google doc, github repo) for
  recording info

* What will be the next three things you do?

1. Institute a post-job-contact survey to ask students to fill out
   whenever they interact with an employer or an interview
   - Q: Does this have to be automated with some central tracking software? Is there some way around this?
2. Investigate basic stats reporting on student job tracking data (avg #
   of job apps, avg number of meetings/interviews, avg "dropoff" rates
   at different stages)
3. TBD

* How will you keep track of progress and results?

- Check in regularly with marissa about how our insight into job process
  is looking
- Try to continue tracking with students to see how many things are
  still "falling through the cracks"

* Are you empowered to take the actions you think necessary?

## The Future

* What would total success look like?

- Some sort of integrated dashboard/stats repository listing job
  contacts for every graduating/job-hunting student
- Ability to identify funnel-style pain points -- dropoffs at tech
  intervies? dropoffs at cultural screenings?

* What metrics can be used to evaluate results?

- Avg # of records reported per student?

* What would meaningful progress look like in 3 months? 6 months? 12 months?

- Short Term: We have students submitting some kind of reports after
  job/employer contact
- Mid/Long Term: Students can submit this feedback through an organized
  tool that is aware of what the overall job process looks like and can
  report the data in a "funnel"-like format

* How feasible are each of those goals?

Definitely feasible to put some tools in place. I think the hardest part
of this is figuring how to get the necessary processes and discipline in
place to get accurate and consistent reporting from students.

## The Periphery

* What challenges are you going to stop working on to put time into this?

Q: Not sure. Large questions around amount of time/effort required to
make this work.

* What research/learning do you need to do to be effective at solving it?

- Discussion needed with other Turing staff and maybe students as well
  to identify what we actually need

* What supports do you need to make meaningful progress?

- Probably need ongoing checkins with Marissa especially to talk about
  next steps and what we need

* Which other challenges does this align with?

- Academic: Interview preparedness
- Software: augment job hunting process with new tools
- Lifecycle:  prepare students for the job hunt with effective strategies, clear and realistic expectations, and an ability to represent the skills they’ve developed.

* Who, inside and outside our community, can help you?

- Marissa, Daisha, Jeff. Probably lots of feedback from students along
  the way

Update: Talked more with Marissa about this. She has been researching
potential CRM options for managing data around student/alumni employment
and job hunting.

We still need to identify the right tool but this would be a big first
step since we'd have places to put the data and a common interface
around organizing it. Next challenges would be sourcing data from all of
our existing (non-comprehensive) sources, and starting to engrain this
workflow in students who are working on the job hunt.

* When you're unavailable (sick, leave, etc), who does this challenge belong to?

- Q: Probably marissa ends up managing lots of this tooling day to day
